Welcome to exporting and particle systems.
In this video you will see how particle systems export from Blender.
You'll learn how to convert them.
I understand that this can break your modelling flow and realize that you may be better off using the
particle system in the other program.
You are exporting too.
If it exists.
So let's hop straight on over into blender right.
So to make this nice and straight forward I suggest if you are following along and do make a new save
So go file save as and save it perhaps as fluffy bunny exports.
This is very good to be very useful erm.
Even if you don't have a game engine or something else to import it to as it will increase your understanding
of how blender and other programs can interact.
So first of all I'm going to make my scene nice and simple and I'm going to delete everything but the
rabbit including the eyes.
In this case.
So I've already saved my file as fluffy bunny exports and that she going to select everything here.
And X.
Delete.
So we just left with the fluffy bunny in the scene.
Now if I go ahead and go file exports and export that as an FBI X an I'm going to export this as fluffy
bunny exports and click the export button.
Brilliant.
So that's all done.
Let's go see how that opens up in two very popular game engines.
Right so in the unreel four engine we can see that our bunny has some what's missing some fur.
So that's no good.
That's nice.
She come across how we want it to come across.
Now in this case I would thoroughly recommend using the particle system built into unreel for rather
than trying to get it across.
But I'll show you how to get across any way.
If you wanted a more static appearance or if you were making a more cartoony of hairstyle let's say
or any other particle system so this will apply to any.
I repeat again any particle system.
Obviously if we got rocks or trees or flowers or grass scattered around that's fine.
We can export those across but here's there's so many of them.
If it's not being managed in the actual engine itself you're going to have a few problems.
When I was trying it earlier I ended up with one point six million triangles on our bunny and that was
just a bit high for my liking.
Let's see how it looks over in unity.
So just for confirmation over annuity engine were also missing hair on our bunny so that's no good at
all.
So again if you are using unity you'd use the unity Hess system here particle system so that is the
general rule.
However if you do if you have kreda hairstyling you wanted to solidify into a into something you can
import into with these game engines.
Well go ahead and show you how to do that right now.
So taking our bunny here to make things simple.
What I'm gonna do is I'm only going to do one of these hair particle systems that we've got I think
we've got five intact something to go across to the rabbits itself and under the modifiers tap which
is currently open which is useful and is going to lift the SO who can see what's going on.
We've got five particle systems so let's just turn them off.
They're not named which is not very useful.
Tut tut.
So let's keep the particle system one I think up here and we can get rid of all the other.
So I'm going to keep the body particle system so can we go across here and we can see that I'm literally
just going to.
Oh I just deleted the body can I do it.
Excellent.
Love being able to undo skerryvore is and get rid of the chest.
So now we've just got this hair system here.
The reason one of them is just to emphasize the point that this can be incredibly slow with this many
hairs that we've got on here.
So now we've got that there.
We can go back into the modified tab and there's this convert button and you just click that.
It's as simple as that.
We have now converted our heads up particle system to a mesh object.
But it's not done yet if we try and import that in to any other program or not any other program but
certain programs I know in real would fall over because it would complain that there's actually no geometry
here there's no triangles.
All it is is a series of edges says converted those hairs into a series of edges so we need to make
them a bit thicker.
Now a lot of ways of doing that but a really straightforward way would be to hop in over into edit mode
select all of those hairs and extrude them ever so slightly in any direction.
Some of them extrude democracies slightly in the said direction by almost to extrude and arm not extruding.
Let's make sure we have everything selected.
We're extruding in that direction.
Silly me I'm trying to extrude a face.
Okay.
So selecting edge select and then trying to extrude does result in a lot of geometry trying to be made.
So we're going to extruding the z direction by nought point nought one something really really small.
Okay.
Now if we go and export that's an I'm going to call this exports.
We body I'm just going to spend it with body so I know there's a different one an export that.
And then in the game engines we'll see what that looks like.
Here we are in the unreal four engine and we can see we've got some hare we've got a hairy chest on
the rabbits but the rest of the hairs haven't really come through quite as intended or that might just
be how it's drawing it.
By the looks of things yeah I think it is how it's drawing if I move round here.
It seems that certainly seems to be more here on this site.
The dark side of the rabbits there appears to be on here.
So we need to play about with the particle system to get this actually coming across how we want.
Let's have a look at the Unity and suspected we'll see exactly the same thing here with more hair on
the other side.
Yes so we've got a lot of playing about to get this how we want it.
It's a good start it's not perfect by any stretch of the imagination.
Now of course you probably wouldn't want to do this you would probably use the built in hare generators
on both of these platforms or another application if you had it if you didn't have the option of course
this is your only option of making sure your model comes out complete.
Now of course it is very difficult to go ahead and edit this anymore we cant comb it any way we can
in blender we can comb it move its about the particle systems themselves still exist in there.
Weve just converted them to a mesh.
So if we did do that it over in blender mestas go across.
Now wed have to remember to turn off this mesh object over in blender.
We'd need to turn it off when rendering and probably in the viewport as well.
If we come into object mode so that we dont get a double amount of hairs if we turn it back on as you
can see it somewhat confuses the viewport.
So theres lots of things to experiment with with that.
In general as I say I would recommend using built in particle system generators in game engine certainly
and other 3D applications.
So other things that use particles and we move on to this later on in the course as well.
You can use the particle system to just distribute objects around your scene.
In that case you probably do want to do what weve just done with these hairs and apply it in your scene
itself.
However things like hairs smoke fire water etc. trying to move those across is very difficult as weve
seen here it hasn't come across smoothly.
And of course if it's moving you it's animated at all.
It's a real downer because it's just going to be static not gonna look very good at all.
So there we go.
Any questions of course ask in the discussions.
Hope this helps you with moving assets from Blender into game engines and other packages as well.
And I will see you guys in the next lecture.